All right.
So let's draw a figure.One thing I always
start out with a pencil, because you can always
erase it, and it's a good way to just get
the basis going.
So I always start with the head.
Just think about proportion as you're doing
it.
The head, then the neck.
We do a straight line under the neck.
A good trick is to make an X here for the
body.
And it's great that we're doing this in pencil,
as I said before, because all of this can
go away later.
From here, we work with a lot of elongated
triangles.
I'm going have this girl have her hand on
her hip.
So I'm doing these elongated triangles, even
a little triangle for the hand, because you're
going to smooth it out later.
We'll give her a little arm, hanging down.
It can even cross into the hand, as I just
did.
We'll give her some legs, and you basically
segment the legs into triangles.
This is how you establish the kneecaps, you
do like little inverted triangle that way.
And even a little inverted triangle for the
foot, as well.
All right.
Now we go in and we smooth it all out.
She kind of has a short neck, but I'm not
that concerned, I can always erase that and
fix it, so whatever.
Basically drawing her outer silhouette now.
I'll give her some bust, give her some hips.
This
is such a great trick because everybody knows
how to draw a triangle, and then you're just
smoothing over, smoothing over.
She's turning out on the curvier side, but
I can always fix that later as well.
I'll give her her feet.
Which I probably want her in high heels.
All right.
So, once you've gotten this process down,
you've gotten it all smoothed out, you're
happy with this, you're happy with that, and
in fashion illustration you always elongate
the form.
And the reason why is you have more room to
render the clothing.
And that is why we make them so tall and lanky.
It gives us more space to render details.
Okay, now I go in with my pen.
I like a nice roller pen, you can use felt
tip, whatever you like.
And I ink it all in.
I hate drawing hands, but I will give a good
attempt for you.
I'll just give her like a weird mitten, but
whatever, you can fix that later.
That's why we have White-Out.
It's never a bad idea just to put her hands
behind her body, because it's all about the
clothes, it's really not about her hands.
And even if I'm doing these lines kind of
feathery, you can always go over it again
later with a thicker pen and really tighten
it up.
I'll give her some calves, a foot, and I'll
have her have some high-heeled shoes on.
She's pivoting her foot out.
I'll lose this calf on this side and give
her a calf on that side that tells me that
her foot is being pivoted out.
I'll give her a crotch.
All right, so I've done the basic structure,
so now I go in with my eraser and I get rid
of all of the pencil.
That arm is not pretty, but whatever, I can
fix that later.
So after a few little corrections, she'll
be good to go, you can scan her into your
computer.
And that's how you draw a figure.